Company Overview

Who Mattersight is: 

The rubber hits the road when someone picks up the phone to talk to a company. It happens over 250 million times a day. With over 60 percent of people dumping brands because of bad customer service, that phone call can make or break a business. 

Enter Mattersight – the only company that uses personality analysis and big data analytics to improve every customer call, increase customer satisfaction and lower costs for Fortune 500 enterprises. Our patented technology mines a private database of over 1 billion customer service calls to quickly pair customers with call center agents they will naturally, effortlessly click with. Awkward and annoying becomes satisfying and enjoyable. Frustrated becomes enthusiastic. 

Mattersight helps companies make positive conversations with their customers the rule, not the exception by fostering emotional connections that turn complainers into fans.

Responsibilities & Qualifications

Who you are: 

A seasoned data scientist energized by the prospect of using data to solve real world problems, comfortable working in a highly changing & growth-driven environment, and is able to help our company grow. As Data Scientists we are the leading authorities on driving the organization’s thinking on building new decision algorithms, bringing out insights from the data of existing clients, and enhancing or building new products. 

What you’ll do: 

The Data Scientist responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following tasks:
Analyze, report, and present on findings and behavioral trends
Manipulate and analyze complex, high-volume, high-dimensionality data from varying sources
Drive the collection of new data and the refinement of existing data sources
Develop product offerings through careful consideration of business value and data analyses
Explore high-level, undefined ideas and business problems using unstructured, raw data
Improve internal processes and tools to increase efficiency and spur future product innovation
Train and develop the less experienced data scientists and analysts on the team
Spur future product innovation
Given the Mattersight’s growth path, the Data Scientist will be actively involved in growing the group and streamlining the people and processes to increase efficiency and effectiveness. 

What we’re looking for:
3 or more years of data science work experience
Degrees with a concentration in a quantitative discipline
Familiarity with relational databases and SQL-like query languages
Strong competence with the R programming language
Advanced knowledge of statistics
Strong verbal and written communication skills, listening skills, and effective presentation skills
Ability to impress internal teams and positively influence third-party partners and customers
One or more of:
Expertise in text mining, NLP methods, information extraction and/or machine learning
Expertise in user modeling
Expertise in predictive modeling or predictive analytics
Expertise in social psychology and computational social science
Expertise in big data and distributed file system tools such as Hadoop and Spark
Frankly put, Big Data is exploding. That explosion is presenting all kinds of interesting avenues for our business, which is allowing our teams to grow professionally, technically and personally. This is exciting technology in an exciting space, and we want YOU to come join us on this adventure. If you want to grow and contribute in ways you didn’t expect, contact us today and see what matters.

Other Facts

Company Culture & Facts 

Corporate Culture 

Mattersight values diversity amongst its employees. Employees from all levels of experience and backgrounds are mingled together and are encouraged to learn about projects others are working on. Mattersight’s Chicago office fosters teamwork as well as self motivation. 

Eligibility & Location 

Mattersight seeks candidates authorized to work without sponsorship in the United States. The Data Scientist role will be based out of Mattersight’s Chicago location; candidates should anticipate little to no travel. 

Compensation 

Mattersight is prepared to offer a highly competitive benefits and compensation package for the ideal candidate. 

Questions 

Any questions regarding the position should be communicated to Patrick Stearns, Director of Talent Acquisition, patrick.stearns@mattersight.com 

For more information about Mattersight, visit http://www.mattersight.com/. Mattersight is committed to equal opportunity and affirmative action in all employment matters: Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, ancestry, marital or domestic partner status, national origin, disability or medical condition, pregnancy, veteran or military status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or on account of membership or affiliation with anyone in any of the foregoing categories, or any other protected category under federal, state or local law. Although particular legal provisions may differ in various locations in which we do business, our principles are the same worldwide.