Data Scientist
Location 


Massachusetts, Boston

Job Category 

IT

Apply Now

Homesite is an innovative national property and casualty insurance company with a fast-paced, start-up environment. We offer multiple products with a focus on direct to consumer distribution in partnership with large national brands. We continually seek to develop new products and improve our existing ones.

We’re looking for a Data Scientist to help expand our data science team. You might be a good fit if:
You think about ways to automatically figure out the optimal number of clusters in an unsupervised learning problem.
You know an ensemble classifier is not a single model and educate people who think it is one.
You are capable of wrestling with numerous disparate, dirty, and inconsistent data sources.
You are constantly looking to learn new methods and technologies.
Responsibilities

The correct individual will:


• Collaborate with data scientists to analyze data and build machine learning models. This includes:
o Build classification, clustering, and anomaly detection models using ensemble classifiers, support vector machines, mixture models, linear models, and clustering methods

o Use deep learning techniques such as recurrent neural networks build models using text and natural language processing and possibly convolutional neural networks with images.

o Serve as subject matter expert to research and identify products in the market to use for machine learning tasks in a buy vs build evaluation.

• Carry out data science tasks such as writing code to:
o Extract, clean, recode and reconcile data from a variety of structured data sources including databases, flat files, and shapefiles.

o Scale, transform, and impute continuous and categorical data.

o Break and distribute computationally intensive jobs as needed.

o Evaluate and recommend optimal combinations of models and model results.
Collaborate with data scientists and developer team to translate models to business solutions.
Requirements
New PhD in Machine Learning, Computer Science, Statistics, Engineering, Applied Mathematics, or other quantitative discipline (ABD is with expected defense is fine). Or Master’s degree with 2 to 3 years’ experience or a Bachelor’s degree with 4 to 5 years’ experience
Strong experience with Python programming especially with data science libraries including pandas, scikit-learn, numpy, matplotlib, and statsmodels.
Experience with a variety of statistical and machine learning models and techniques including classification models, anomaly detection, and clustering.
Some experience with deep learning methods in including recurrent neural nets, convolutional neural nets, or self-organizing maps and of standard libraries like TensorFlow or Keras used to implement these methods
Comfort working with a variety of databases and data structures.
Experience working with AWS Services including RedShift, S3, and Athena and using boto3 to use from Python.
A self-motivated individual who is a fast learner and self-starter.