Req ID 95924BR
Business Title Data Scientist
Group MSS
Location USA VIRGINIA Stafford
Clearance Level Needed TS/SCI
Category Scientific / Analytical
Job Duties and Responsibilities ManTech is seeking a Data Scientist to support to our growing Marine Corps Intelligence programs in Quantico, VA. 

General Responsibilities: 

Establish comprehensive plan for collecting, processing, exploiting and managing publicly available information and intelligence products for the MCISRE. Ensuring system is flexible and adaptable to evolving requirements and provides access and collaboration across the Enterprise. Develop data analytics models and tools (widgets) to creatively process, analyze, and present social media and other online data to meet intelligence requirements for the Enterprise. Meet rigorous security and information assurance requirements for collection, storage, and management. Someone that is able to use a coding language, pull in data into a program, write packages to sort through it, and help us visualize and analyze it. 

The Data Scientist shall utilize data science and development skills to automate manual analytic processes, generate analytic models, and enable analysts to exploit data holdings. The contractor shall establish advanced analysis and data visualization methodologies, models, and tools to derive intelligence outcomes and impacts. Technical developer skills required include, but are not limited to: Python, R, Java, JavaScript, AngularJS, .NET, Hadoop-related and Apache related technologies. As technology and mission requirements change over the course of this contract, the need for some of these technologies may be lessened and the need for new or different skills may be required. The Contractor shall assist in establishing capability to examine voluminous data sources. The Contractor shall assist the Government in applying innovative and big data-driven problem solving skills to analytic elements. The Contractor shall provide services related to data visualization and communication of complex quantitative concepts to non-technical audiences. The Contractor will apply specialized experience in statistics and machine learning algorithms (how to gather, clean, and appropriately use data in models that address IC mission needs) as well as coding and data visualization skills. The contractor shall provide tailored communications to innovation stakeholders in meetings, demos, and other customer engagements. 

Mandatory Skills Requirements: 

 Must possess an active TS/SCI DoD Clearance 
 Must possess a Bachelor's of Science Degree and 8 years of experience, years of experience can replace degree requirements. Applied Science Degree and/or Advanced Degree preferred 
 Handles raw data (e.g. structured, unstructured, and mixed datasets), and analyzes data through the application of various statistical techniques or tools 
 Familiar with programming languages such as, but not limited to: R, SAS, Python, MatLab, Java, JavaScript, SQL, Hive, Pig, and Apache projects 
 Experienced in working with and exploiting big data; distributed computing; predictive modeling; mathematics; statistics; machine learning; story-telling; and visualization 
 Demonstrates ability to extract meaning from and interpret data using a variety of tools and methods from statistics and machine learning 
 Determines methods of statistical analysis and applies statistical techniques to determine measures of central tendency, correlation, sample size, significance of differences, etc. 
 Researches pertinent literature in a designed project area and analyzes applicability of concepts

Qualifications 

Requires Bachelor뭩 degree (to include courses in statistics or research methods) or equivalent, and seven to nine years of related experience.
Additional Qualifications Knowledge of standard DoD and Marine Corps concepts, practices, and procedures. Familiarity with Navy/Marine Corps interoperability requirements is preferred. 

Knowledge of CZTK (OpenIO, Scraawl, Crimson Hex, Zignal) and Dataminr
Degrees Equivalent Experience/Education 
Bachelor's Degree

Years of Experience See Qualifications
Position Type Full-Time
Shift Day
Overview ManTech International Corporation is comprised of approximately 7,300 talented employees who use advanced technology to help government and industry meet some of their greatest challenges around the world. We adhere to the simple, no-nonsense values on which ManTech was founded more than four decades ago, aligning squarely with the mission objectives of our customers. As our customer base continues to expand and diversify, we continue to diversify our workforce and solutions. Nearly half our employees have a military background, and approximately 70 percent hold a government security clearance. As a leading provider of innovative technology services and solutions for the nation's defense, security, health, space, and intelligence communities; we hold nearly 1,100 active contracts with more than 50 different government agencies.