Where good people build rewarding careers. 

Think that working in the insurance field cant be exciting, rewarding and challenging? Think again. Youll help us reinvent protection and retirement to improve customers lives. Well help you make an impact with our training and mentoring offerings. Here, youll have the opportunity to expand and apply your skills in ways you never thought possible. And youll have fun doing it. Join a company of individuals with hopes, plans and passions, all using and developing our talents for good, at work and in life.
Job Description 

Arity 

Arity is a new technology company that uses advanced predictive analytics to help partners evaluate risk and make sense of everyday experiences. Our proprietary algorithms analyze billions of data points, distilling the flood of information into simple, actionable insights. Chief among these is the Arity Driving Score, which models billions of miles of driving and claims data to assess risk, gauging each driver’s likelihood of an event. 

Founded by The Allstate Corporation, an organization synonymous with protection and preparation, Arity is born from a long-standing commitment to deep customer understanding and future-focused innovation. Fueled by the curiosity of a startup, our expertise begins with connected car, providing applied insights that meet insurer and transportation/mobility company needs and enhance driver safety, connectivity and value. 

Don’t miss this opportunity to join a team where your innovative thinking and technology skills can improve the safety of those on the road and further enhance the car-ownership experience. 

The Team 
Arity pushes the boundaries of predictive analytics, leveraging data and modeling expertise to help evaluate driving risk and make smarter decisions in real time. This team works across the Enterprise to manage the strategy, integration and governance of data at Arity. 

The Role 

The Data & Analytics Sr Consultant II is responsible for leading complex and/or critically important projects and managing work that have Data Governance and Management impacts to the Enterprise. The role is responsible for project results in terms of costs, methods and outcomes. This role drives collaboration and influences multiple levels of leadership to execute on key deliverables. 

Key Responsibilities
Proactively drives and contributes to the common vision and communication, including elevating the organizations’ commitment to clean, reliable, and accurate customer and business data
Ensures that a cross-functional view of business data is available to the enterprise
Develop and implement processes to maintain high quality data assets
Document and maintain metadata for critical data including ownership, definitions, taxonomies, standards, and reference data through proactive discovery, recurring SME engagement, and evaluation of current and future initiatives and capabilities
Mentor cross-functional teams to achieve results.
Manages data and analytic project and program execution of complex and/or critically important complexity
Designs and implements new program solutions. May own pieces of critical project from start to finish.
Implements change in the area of data quality and optimization
Manages data and analytical work of complex and/or critically important complexity through a cohesive plan that outlines objectives, timelines, risks, and deliverables enabling the movement of the most important work forward
Ability to translate technical requirements and deliverables to business capabilities to proactively communicate risks, issues and status to leadership and key stakeholders at multiple levels
Uses influence and negotiation to convince internal or external contacts of project decisions
Drives problem solving and issue resolution to ensure task completion by establishing priorities and resolving conflicts with team members, functional mangers and senior leaders.
Knowledge/Skills/Abilities/Experience
Bachelor/MBA degree required, in fields such as business, math, data architecture, library science
5-7 years of business experience
Sound experience with Data Quality and/or Metadata tools such as: Informatica Data Quality/Metadata, Atlas, Infosphere
Applies strong understanding of Data Governance, Metadata and/or Data Quality
Possesses advanced quantitative and analytical skills
Ability to synthesize large amounts of complex data into meaningful conclusions and recommendations
Ability to design and lead dynamic projects that are complex and/or critically important
Advanced ability to manage multiple priorities given aggressive timelines; comfortable performing in a fast paced, dynamic and ambiguous business environment
Uses sound decision making capabilities including problem solving approaches, decision frameworks; ability to support complex analysis
Advanced skill in motivation, organization, analysis, coaching and facilitation of teamwork
Ability to develop and/or revise tactics to support changing strategies and direction.
Ability to structure documents to effectively communicate with senior management and drive alignment and decision making

Good Work. Good Life. Good Hands®. 

As a Fortune 100 company and industry leader, we provide a competitive salary but thats just the beginning. Our Total Rewards package also offers benefits like tuition assistance, medical and dental insurance, as well as a robust pension and 401(k). Plus, youll have access to a wide variety of programs to help you balance your work and personal life -- including a generous paid time off policy. 

Learn more about life at Allstate. Connect with us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn or watch a video. 

Allstate generally does not sponsor individuals for employment-based visas for this position. 

Effective July 1, 2014, under Indiana House Enrolled Act (HEA) 1242, it is against public policy of the State of Indiana and a discriminatory practice for an employer to discriminate against a prospective employee on the basis of status as a veteran by refusing to employ an applicant on the basis that they are a veteran of the armed forces of the United States, a member of the Indiana National Guard or a member of a reserve component. 

For jobs in San Francisco, please click "here" for information regarding the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance. 

For jobs in Los Angeles, please click "here" for information regarding the Los Angeles Fair Chance Initiative for Hiring Ordinance. 

It is the policy of Allstate to employ the best qualified individuals available for all jobs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity/gender expression, disability, and citizenship status as a veteran with a disability or veteran of the Vietnam Era. 

ABC