Data Scientist

We are looking for a experienced Data Scientist to join BlueVine’s growing Data Science team in Redwood City, CA and lead our efforts at modeling and researching consumer behavior.

Your work will include applying machine learning methods for data mining, performing statistical analyses and building prediction models critical to maintaining the very strong growth our business is seeing.

This will encompass many different aspects of research and prediction of consumer behavior, with a specific emphasis on the following: Direct mail campaigns, Response modeling, Lifetime Value (LTV), Churn analysis and A/B testing.

An additional secondary field of work will be the world of Risk analysis and financial modeling: Credibility scoring, fraud detection and financial strength prediction.

Responsibilities
End-to-end model development: Build prediction models from the ground up, from data exploration through feature generation and into model construction and optimization.
Lead collaboration with teams across the company: Business operations, marketing, finance and risk.
Work with our engineering team on technically complex projects.
Communicate key results to senior management in verbal, visual, and written media.
Own the implementation of your models and insights and see them deliver real results.

Qualification
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Economics, Mathematics , Information Systems or equivalent technical degree.
2 years of hands-on experience as a Data Scientist, Machine Learning engineer or a comparable analytical position.
2 years of hands-on experience with Python or R and the supporting analysis libraries / ecosystem.
Proven track record in developing Direct Mail models and other models in the fields of marketing / revenue / consumer behavior, such as: Response models, LTV, Churn & AB testing.
An excellent understanding of both traditional statistical modeling and Machine Learning techniques and algorithms: Regression, clustering, ensembling (random forest, gradient boosting), deep learning (neural networks), etc.
Proficiency with SQL and experience in working with databases.
Familiarity with Git and Linux / OS command line.
Self-starter excited to learn unfamiliar concepts on the job.
Delivery-oriented approach - ability to get things done within a strict time frame / ability to juggle multiple assignments.
Deep interest in learning both the theoretical and practical aspects of working with and deriving insights from data.
Great communication skills.

Nice to Have
Master’s Degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Economics, Mathematics, Information Systems or equivalent.
Excellent Python programming skills.
PostgreSQL / Redshift hands-on experience.
Experience in working with Amazon AWS ecosystem.
Experience with remote development & distributed development architectures.

About BlueVine

We started with a simple goal: to help small and medium-sized businesses with their everyday funding needs, whether it’s to plug unexpected cash flow gaps, or to take on a business opportunity that will help them grow. Our mission is to offer convenient and flexible access to working capital, without lengthy applications, hidden fees or long-term contracts.

Our team reflects our strategy: we move fast, focus on building simple solutions, and push boundaries as we work and learn together.

As a result BlueVine has come a long way in just three years. Our factoring and business line of credit solutions have helped thousands of entrepreneurs. We’ve provided more than $250 million in working capital funding to date, and we’re on track to fund over $500 million in 2017 alone proving that helping others grow their businesses is a good way to grow our business as well.

In addition to the many clients who have joined us on our journey we have also earned the backing of leading investors, including Lightspeed Venture Partners, Menlo Ventures, 83North, Rakuten Fintech Fund and Citi Ventures, the venture investing arm of Citigroup who combined have invested more than $100M to help us achieve our goal together.