We’re America’s largest mortgage lender, closing loans in all 50 states. J.D Power ranked Quicken Loans “Highest in Customer Satisfaction in Primary Mortgage Origination” for the past eight consecutive years, 2010 – 2017. The company was also ranked highest in the nation for client satisfaction among mortgage servicers by J.D. Power for four consecutive years, 2014 through 2017, each year the company was eligible. There’s a simple reason we’ve been so successful: We care about the people we work with. 

If you’re tired of stuffy, bureaucratic workplaces, then you’ll be delighted to find something different here. We strive to make a creative, fun and collaborative environment you simply won’t find anywhere else. Quicken Loans was named #1 in ESSENCE Magazine’s first ever list of “Best Places to Work for African Americans” in 2015. We've been on Computerworld's "Best Places to Work in IT" list for 13 years running, hitting #1 the last five years and we were ranked #10 in FORTUNE Magazine’s list of "100 Best Companies to Work For" in 2018, remaining in the top-30 for the past 15 years. 

What You'll Do/Need 

The Harvard Business Review characterized “Data Scientist” as the “Sexiest Job of the 21st Century,” and with good reason. Perhaps no other position in today’s technology landscape is so central to the transformation of how business is done. If data is the vehicle that unlocks new frontiers of business capability in the Information Age, Data Scientists are the drivers. At Quicken Loans, we rely on Data Scientists to unleash the potential of machine learning, Big Data and modeling to solve critical business challenges that give us a competitive edge. 

Responsibilities
Leverage your knowledge of programming, mathematics and computer science to transform the way our company does business
Translate business opportunities into data-driven machine learning, Big Data, and modeling solutions that revamp our processes or produce data products
Develop and collect data for ad hoc and statistical analyses
Identify methods that allow continuous and automated statistical testing to enhance the predictability of deployed models
Maintain relationships between business-area clients, business intelligence and IT so all teams are aligned to meet team objectives
Work with Project Managers to develop detailed project timelines
Summarize and present conclusions and solutions
Communicate complex analyses clearly to all audiences
Requirements
Master’s degree or above in a STEM field, including but not limited to: computer science, statistics, applied mathematics, operations research, engineering, economics, social sciences, physics, chemistry.
Experience working with raw and missing data
Understanding of programming fundamentals
Understanding of Statistics
Excellent communication skills
Four years of experience providing advanced analytics within a business setting
One year of data-science implementation experience within a business setting

Preferred Skills
Experience with data visualization tools and time series
Working knowledge of relational databases and standard SQL query methods
Proficiency in at least one general programming language such as Python, Java or C/C++
Experience working with Big Data within a Hadoop environment
Experience working with R, SAS or other statistical packages
Advanced experience with statistical, econometric or data-mining tools and methods
Experience with linear models (linear regression, generalized linear regression, logistic regression), and nonlinear modeling techniques
Knowledge of advanced nonlinear techniques, including smoothing and ensemble methods
Excellent benefits package that includes a 401(k) match, medical/dental/vision, and much more
Opportunities to participate in professional and personal development programs, including personal empowerment coaching, leadership training and ongoing personal growth training
Other incentives, contests and rewards, including trips, event tickets, cash prizes and more