Are you passionate about solving challenging problems? 

Do you thrive being a critical part of an elite team of like-minded people? 

How would you like for your next career move to take you to the next level? 

If any of this sounds appealing, look no further. 

In this role you will:
Design, build, and maintain streaming data/ETL pipeline using languages like Python or Java.
Maintain, enhance, and optimize the data pipeline for scalability and reliability
Utilize open source and COTS Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning capabilities
Work with data-coders, modelers, and front-end developers to ensure coordination and collaboration
Be a Versatile back-end developer with experience extracting, transforming and loading (ETL) structured and unstructured data

Basic Qualifications:
2+ years of experience in data processing back-end development roles
Conceptual understanding of – and/or prior experiences related to – relational databases & query languages
Strong coding skills in at least one language: Python or Java
Experience with various data formats such as XML and JSON
Excellent oral and written communication skills and an ability to translate complicated technical issues for a non-technical audience

Desired Skills:
Experience in data modeling, including conceptual, logical, physical, warehouse, and data mart models.
Conceptual understanding of NoSQL technologies including Hadoop, the map-reduce algorithm, HDFS, Hive, Pig, Accumulo, Apache ElasticSearch and data flow automation techniques such as Apache Camel or Nifi.
Experience participating in Agile/SCRUM projects
Experience with R, Spark, and Tensorflow
Experience with statistical modeling and elastic search indexing

Security Clearance: 

Candidates must possess a TS/SCI level security clearance 

So what does Novetta do? 

We focus on three core areas: Cyber, Entity, and Multi-Int Analytics. Our products are focused on processing and analyzing vast amounts of data in these core areas. Our services are focused on helping our customers move from complexity to clarity. At Novetta, we bridge the gap between what our customers think they can do and what they aspire to achieve. 

Our culture is shaped by a commitment to our Core Values: 

Integrity: We hold ourselves accountable to the highest standards of integrity and ethics. 

Customer Mission Success: Customer mission success drives our daily efforts—we strive always to exceed customer expectations and focus on mission success beyond contractual commitments. 

Employee Focus: We value our employees and demonstrate our commitment to them by providing clear communications, outstanding benefits, career development, and opportunities to work on problems and technical challenges of national significance. 

Innovation: We believe that innovation is critical to our success – that discovering new and more effective ways to achieve customer mission success is what makes us a great company. 

Get a referral bonus for the great people you know! With our amazing referral program, you could be eligible to win outstanding rewards for referring qualified new hires to Novetta. 

Novetta is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, race, color, religion, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, age, or any other characteristic protected by law.