Grant Thornton is seeking a Senior Associate to join its Decision Analytics service line and take an active role in engagement execution, project management and key business development activities. 

Grant Thornton Public Sector helps executives and managers at all levels of government maximize their performance and efficiency in the face of ever tightening budgets and increased demand for services. We give clients creative, cost-effective solutions that enhance their acquisition, financial, human capital, information technology, data analytics, and performance management. For more information, visit grantthornton.com/publicsector. 

At Grant Thornton, our professional staff applies traditional, cutting-edge approaches and methods to a variety of analyses. As part of our team, the Senior Associate will utilize various methodologies and models to execute client projects. 

ESSENTIAL DUTIES:
Provide quantitative analysis and reporting of mission support performance. Analysis requires deep understanding of data visualization and presentation capabilities.
Provides ad hoc analysis to answer leadership’s questions regarding Client’s hiring process. Current products are developed using a variety of tools to include Excel, R, Access, Stata, and Tableau.
Lead modifications to the current set of metrics, oversee data collections, and development of executive level dashboards.
The analyst will be a SME on analysis methods and will be required to research and apply advanced analysis to improve the team’s analysis capabilities.
Additionally, the analyst will be required to provide support to develop monthly reporting and ad hoc inquires.
Meet or exceed targeted billing hours (utilization).
Assist with business development activities, such as proposals, capture, account teams, whitepapers, conferences, and/or other thought leadership materials.
Ability to identify and assess correlations between outcome measures and related output / activity measures.
A minimum of four years experience performing complex analysis.
Ability to communicate and train analysis methods to Human Resource clients.
Advanced skills with Excel.
Intermediate skills with R and SQL.
Intermediate skills with data visualization tools: Tableau, Business Objects, Spotfire, OBIEE, Microstrategy, PowerBI, etc.
Advanced understanding of probability and projection techniques.
Ability to obtain a DHS Public Trust.
Experience as a SME or trainer of advanced analysis methods.
Master’s degree in Industrial Engineering, Operations Research, Statistics, Mathematics, or Economics.
Experience with coding languages.
Experience leading projects in data exploration, survey analysis, and/or data mining.
Experience with workforce staffing planning, hiring analytics, and/or CBP client
Ability to obtain and maintain certain job-related certifications if no job-related advanced degrees.
U.S. citizenship may be required. Ability to work in the United States indefinitely required.
Travel may be required.
Ability to work overtime required on occasion.
Ability to sit in an office environment for long periods of time.
Ability to obtain and maintain a security clearance.
Ability to communicate clearly in writing and verbally.
Ability to obtain and maintain firm independence and abide by firm ethics requirements.
Meet or exceed continuing professional education (CPE) requirements.
Grant Thornton LLP is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International, one of the six global accounting, tax and business advisory organizations. Grant Thornton’s Public Sector, based in Alexandria, VA, is a global management consulting business with the mission of providing responsive and innovative financial, performance management and systems solutions to governments and international organizations. Visit Grant Thornton’s Public Sector at www.grantthornton.com/publicsector. 

It is Grant Thornton’s policy to promote equal employment opportunities. All personnel decisions, including, but not limited to, recruiting, hiring, training, promotion, compensation, benefits and termination, are made without regard to race, creed, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship status, veteran status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.