

Title: Data ScientistLocation: Greenwich, CTDuration: Full – Time Job Overview: The Client is looking for a data scientist. The successful candidate will transform information into insight to drive the continued growth, and to understand how the client can service their clients better. The data scientist role combines internal and external sources of data to paint a clear picture of who clients are, and how they engage with the products and services. Identifying interesting and useful trends in this data, and formulate hypotheses on how to leverage these trends to improve the offering and grow the client base. The Candidate will see the insights turned into action as the Client test and implement changes to take advantage of the analysis. About the Client:The Client is a direct access electronic broker catering to the needs of professional and frequent traders, institutional investors, financial advisors, and introducing brokers. Our clients have access to more than 120 market centers in 26 countries from a single account. We are the lowest cost provider of brokerage services and the largest U.S. electronic broker based on daily average revenue trades executing 695,000 trades per day*. The employees are part of a dynamic, multinational, fast-paced, results-oriented team working to provide our customers with state-of-the-art trading technology, superior execution capabilities, worldwide electronic access, and sophisticated risk management tools.  Responsibilities: • Identify, analyze and pin point trends and patterns in our data sets that we can leverage to further our growth• Communicate and present your findings to executives and key stakeholders• Work closely with management to prioritize business and strategic objectives using a data-driven approach• Interact with executives and managers to identify information needs based around the products and services we offer to track how they are being used by our clients• Design and improve our data collection and database designs to optimize efficiency and improve the data quality• Acquire data from internal and external data sources that can be used to enhance our data sets and improve analysis Basic Qualifications: • Masters in Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics or hard science fields• 5+ years" experience in a data science or data analysis role• Hands on knowledge of mining and analyzing data sets to extract meaningful trends• Experience using statistical programming languages or tool kits for analyzing large, complex data sets• Technical proficiency with optimizing data collection, database design, data mining and modeling/analysis• Strong analytical skills, attention to detail and accuracy• Expert problem solving skills and creative thinking ability• Ability to distill and present key findings to managers and other stakeholders (both technical and non-technical individuals)• Project management skills with experience planning and coordinating full project lifecycle for data and research focused projects            
