

Job #:   832670**Please send any resumes for consideration to Stephen at ssee@apexsystems.comHelp** The Role – Data ScientistWhat we are looking for. . . Do you have an aptitude for data? Do you embrace technology? Are you comfortable with numbers? If yes, yes, and yes, then we are seeking world-class dynamic Data Scientists to join our client"s Innovation team to drive transformational change through evidence-supported decision making. As a member of this innovative team you will work closely with operations and technology teams and leaders to develop new ways of driving business value through data and analytics. You’ll be on point to mine data, deliver analyses and to design the appropriate data products and training to ensure maximum impact of new insights.   What you’ll do…Drive innovation through data and analytics. Promote the Information Management value proposition throughout the organization. Partner with operations and technology teams to develop new ways of thinking about analysis and the advancement of predictive modeling throughout the organization. Partner with the business to identify and evaluate opportunities to leverage advanced analytics Blend internal and external data to develop proprietary analytics and prototypes of solutions. Work across business and technology teams to turn prototypes into robust new analytic tools and/or data products. Work closely with business leaders, providing communication and training to ensure integration of new analytical tools and insights into business processes. Pursue continual development of your own insurance SME, analytic capabilities and technical skills. About you…Strategic thinker with natural curiosity and creative thinking. Bachelor degree in a quantitative discipline. Excellent verbal and written communication skills; can effectively convey complex concepts to non-analytical people; able to influence business stakeholders and gain support for ideas. Self-starter, able to work independently and as part of a team.  Able to collaborate with people from multiple functions; able to establish trusting relationships with business partners. Some things you have experience with…2+ years experience in advanced analytics. Demonstrated skills with key languages such as R, Python, SQL, or SAS. Experience developing predictive models along with an excellent understanding of data mining, GLM, machine learning and other advanced analytical techniques. Experience with data visualization either through tools such as Tableau or via Javascript / D3.    Other desirable/ advantageous skills and experience…Masters degree in a quantitative discipline. Experience in digital analytics covering areas such as digital marketing and customer journeys Classification methods (e.g., Neural Net, Logistic Regression, Decision Trees, KNN, SVM, Random Forest) Regression methods (e.g., Linear, Nonlinear, Boosted Regression Trees Clustering methods (e.g., K-means, Fuzzy C-means, Hierarchical Clustering, Mixture Modelling) Statistical Analysis (e.g., Hypothesis Testing, Experiment Design, Hierarchical Modeling, Bayesian Inference)                 EEO EmployerApex is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. Apex will consider qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable law. If you have visited our website in search of information on employment opportunities or to apply for a position, and you require an accommodation in using our website for a search or application, please contact our Employee Services Department at employeeservices@apexsystemsinc.comHelp or 844-463-6178.            
