

ABOUT SRI-BSamsung R&D Institute Bangalore (SRI-B) is the largest Overseas R&D Centre of Samsung Electronics that works on cutting edge technologies across multiple areas of Samsung"s business, for global as well as for local markets. Since its inception in 1996, SRI-B is credited to have earned few notable world’s “First” and “best” innovations & has the ability to work along the entire value spectrum from Research to Market.  The main purpose of SRI-B is to create “Solution for Flagship” and also to contribute to the “Make for India” mission.Job Description: Samsung R & D Bangalore is visiting US, SAN JOSE on April 5-7th, 2018 and now hiring Data Scientist / Machine Learning EngineersJob Title - AI Experts - Data Scientist / Machine Learning EngineersTeam Description: The Intelligence CoE focus on creating Intelligent Assistant that is context aware, understands the user’s world, predicts and forecasts user needs. It is proactive, spontaneous and highly interactive. This comprises of Voice based intelligence, Vision Intelligence & Application Intelligence, and applying this to a variety of applications running on devices ranging from Mobile, Home Appliances and Wearables.  Job Responsibility:Now hiring for Data Science & System solutions in the areas of Communication, Speech, Vision, Imaging and Sensor Technologies: a) Machine Learning: Experience in ML techniques: SVM, boosting, K-means, KNN, HMM, GMM, Ensemble classifier, deep learning etc. – International publications in relevant fields in top-tier conferences and journals. Strong mathematical understanding. Up-to-date Knowledge and understanding of recent trends in machine learning b) Computer Vision: Experience with object detection, tracking, classification, recognition, scene understanding, facial expression analysis, Sound background in one or more of Computer Vision like Scene Understanding, Recognition (Face, Iris, Finger, Gesture) Machine Learning techniques & deep understanding of Visualization, Hidden nature, Optimization, HyperparametersC) Image and Sensor technologies: Dual Sensors, depth technologies and stereo vision, Image pipeline and heterogeneous computing Deep Learning and analytics for contextual Image processing Biometrics, IRIS, Embedded security technologies D) Intelligent Speech Recognition Should have good experience in speech technologies, ASR/TTS(Text to Speech). Exposure to speech technology tools like, HTK, Kaldi, Festival Prior experience in speech technologies (ASR or TTS) is required. E) NLP/NLUExperience with some of the NLP problems, like intent detection, sentiment analysis, NER etc Strong understanding of Machine Learning techniques especially deep learning F) Communication Systems & ProtocolAlgorithms / Techniques / Tools related to Big data analytics and Machine Learning.  Must have: * worked on a communication networks or Mobile terminal project applying the above techniques (or)* come from a telecommunication / data-networking academic backgroundYears of experience needed: PhD plus 4+years of experience; NON PhD: 8+ yearsInterested candidates can share your resume with me @ careers.srib@samsung.comHelpWe would look forward to meet you if shortlisted. ALL THE BEST.            
