

Data Scientist (Junior-level)Data Scientist (Junior-Level) - PERM - Sunrise, FL - $70-80KData Scientist (Junior-Level) - PERM - Sunrise, FLResponsible for advanced and predictive data analytics using big data and data science technology for healthcare innovation. Perform analysis using data science techniques on structured and unstructured data sets, and develop algorithms for targeted business needs. Designs and develops data models to predict member outcomes or future impact of key member decisions. Design and construct analysis tools that extract, and analyze data and store analytical results in an appropriate format for business needs. Conduct exploratory data analysis from complex data sources and build key data sets to support company mission operational analysis. Evaluate and design experiments to monitor key metrics and identify improvement opportunities. Develop of mathematical and statistical models to distinguish relevant content or events and recognize patterns. Participate in presentations and communicate results of research analysis and findings. Participate in the design of automated, operational analytics processes to achieve scale and durability of analysis processes. Create analysis and data reconciliation through SAS, R and other tools, to include healthcare provider data, claims data, membership data.Data Scientist (Junior-Level) Skills & Requirements:The end client is unable to sponsor or transfer visas for this position; all parties authorized to work in the US without sponsorship are encouraged to apply.This position is NOT eligible for subcontractors or those that require sponsorship 2+ years of quantitative analysis in data science / statistical modeling experience  Strong proficiency w/ SQL  Experience w/ Teradata (or other comparable big data solution) preferred  Proficiency w/ SAS and/or R  Bachelor"s degree in Statistics (Master"s preferred)Why Hays?You will be working with a professional recruiter who has intimate knowledge of the Information Technology industry and market trends . Your Hays recruiter will lead you through a thorough screening process in order to understand your skills, experience, needs, and drivers. You will also get support on resume writing, interview tips, and career planning, so when there"s a position you really want, you"re fully prepared to get it. Additionally, if the position is a consulting opportunity, Hays offers you the opportunity to enroll in full medical, dental or vision benefits.* Medical * Dental * Vision * 401K * Life Insurance ($20,000 benefit)* ATOP - Accrued time off program* Consultant lunches and outings * Care packages/Survival packs* Dedicated Consulting Services RepresentativeNervous about an upcoming interview? Unsure how to write a new resume?Visit the Hays Career Advice section to learn top tips to help you stand out from the crowd when job hunting.Hays is an Equal Opportunity Employer.Drug testing may be required; please contact a recruiter for more information.            
