

Data Scientist




Glocomms
•
New York, NY


Posted 5 days ago




Full-Time


$120,000.00 - $140,000.00 /Year


Computer Software


Engineering



Job Description

Data Scientist Emerging Tech Start-UpDowntown Manhattan $140,000- $160,000 & equity & benefits (Paid Healthcare, Gym Membership and cold brew on tap) OverviewA cutting-edge, emerging tech start-up is looking for an experienced Data Scientist to join their rapidly growing engineering & analytics team. This profitable, Series A start-up currently works with varying sized companies from other start-ups to numerous Fortune 500 Companies. They have created a platform which provides live, real-time answers to complex questions. By utilizing the latest technologies, combined with an unlimited access to data, statistics and expert research information, the platform generates answers for inquiries with multiple points of view: providing answers that saves time in finding stats, discovering insights and building lists.  What will you be doing? Data Scientist will work in conjunction with the software engineering team to create to plan new products that will enhance customer experience for our proprietary research database. Additionally you will use demand prediction to ensure we have enough analysts and that they are fairly compensated for their work while still maintain the bottom line. This is a startup so you will need to jump into projects that touch every team in the business to provide data analysis support. While you will work with internal stakeholders, data scientists need to be able to easily explain their results to external stakeholders and customers.  What you should know  - 2+ years of hands on data science experience (preferably in start-up environment) - Strong Statistics background - You have dabbled with NLP - Strong hands on experience in Python, R and SQL (you can write queries ready for production use) - You are passionate about the tech start-up space and can be an advocate for our brand - Flexibly on working hours - Great communication skills The world of technology continues to grow and this role offers a unique opportunity to join a growing team within an established company.  If you are interested in this role, please send your details to [Click Here to Email Your Resumé] [1]. Or call 646-759-4564.    Links:•-----[1] mailto:apply.a33ho1gn7ay@glocomms.aptrack.co.uk

Job Requirements

2+ years of hands on data science experience (preferably in start-up environment)Strong Statistics backgroundYou have dabbled with NLPStrong hands on experience in Python, R and SQL (you can write queries ready for production use)You are passionate about the tech start-up space and can be an advocate for our brandFlexibly on working hoursGreat communication skills


