

The Senior Data Scientist will work in small multi-disciplinary teams on a wide variety of business problems. Areas of focus for the Company today include: pricing accuracy, support for straight-through-processing of applications and claims, exposure risk management, claims severity management, distribution effectiveness and others. In addition to standard forms of advanced analytics the Sr. Data Scientist will also help explore the development of predictive models with machine learning and artificial intelligence.   Essential Duties and Responsibilities:·  Properly use a wide range of analytical and modeling methods to solve significant business problems· Lead model design sessions with other scientists and business representatives to: discuss various approaches to solving a business problem, evaluate each and design an end-to-end process for executing the chosen methodology·  Manage a modeling project from start to finish. Work with data engineers and IT resources to assemble data. Perform preliminary data analysis and feature creation. Collaborate with business sponsors and peers in the regular review and interpretation of model iterations and final model selection. Work with data engineers and IT resources to generate deployment-ready code· Engage with business partners to develop and execute a model deployment plan including testing the model in real time, incorporating user feedback into model improvements and evaluating model performance over time· Oversee the monitoring, maintenance and updating of models on a regular, periodic basis· Identify and test new areas to apply predictive modeling and other advanced analytics· Train junior modelers and business analysts to develop effective tools and analytical skills. Broaden analytical knowledge and skills across the company· Continue personal educational development through self-study, seminars, and conferences. Share learnings with analytics community Job Requirements:· A master’s degree in Applied Mathematics, Statistics, Quantitative Economics or a related field is a requirement. Candidates with only a bachelor’s degree will be considered if they demonstrate exemplary accomplishments in the field of data science.· At least 7 years of experience solving complex business problems with advanced predictive analytics. Technical Requirements:· Excellent knowledge of relational database structure, programming concepts, external data sources, and experience working with complex data systems·Advanced SAS and R skills, experience with Emblem is a plus but not required.·Advanced Microsoft Excel skills, including macro (VBA) and pivot table creation·Data visualization skills and experience with relevant tools              
