

Ellucian’s Applied Research team is looking for a developer with demonstrable practical experience in the field of machine learning. The candidate will help Applied Research identify, define, and create new services that leverage artificial intelligence technologies and techniques. Ideally, we"re looking for candidate with a recent masters degree wanting to get started in the field. We"ll couple you with other researchers and architects to build prototypes to help build the business case and early products ellucian will build. Excellent opportunity to break into the field! The successful candidate shall:• Specific background in Machine Learning / Artificial Intelligence including proper selection of appropriate plan based on problem• Demonstrate strong research skills• Deliver functional proof-of-concepts for the Higher Education Administrative space• Have practical knowledge and experience as a Data Scientist / Recent grad student level• Collaborate with architects and developers to define architectures and select technologies that compliment and evolve Ellucian’s offerings and services.• Posses an intense intellectual curiosity for technologies and artificial intelligence techniques.• Author papers targeted to technical and non-technical audiences.• Evaluate, demonstrate, and document whether or not we should adopt and assimilate technologies and techniques into our offerings.• Work in a diverse and inclusive working environment. Company InformationEllucian is the world’s leading provider of software, services and insight to higher education. Ellucian helps the higher education community—students, faculty, and staff—achieve their goals more efficiently, effectively, and with reduced risk. Ellucian’s comprehensive suite of software solutions includes student information systems (SIS), finance and HR systems, recruiting and retention systems, among other offerings.  With more than 1,500 institutions subscribing to Ellucian’s cloud services and SaaS offerings, the company is one of the largest providers of cloud-based solutions. Ellucian also supports the higher education community with a range of professional services, such as application software implementation, training, education, and management consulting. More than 2,400 institutions in 40 countries rely on Ellucian to help enable the mission of higher education.            
