

Hi We are looking for Data Scientist with HealthCare Experience position @ Madison, WI-2085, dept.- ETF Role: Data Scientist with HealthCare ExperienceLocation: Madison, WIDuration: Long Term   Description:·         Perform analysis for a wide range of requests using data in different formats and from various platforms.·         Research problems and create models that help analyze these problems.·         Make recommendations after exploring data and discovering patterns, meaningful relationships, anomalies and trends. Communicate the results of this exploration to OSHP partners and explain its meaningfulness. Recommend potential program opportunities that could result.·         Collaborate with OSHP and other ETF staff to identify analytic and reporting needs and develop appropriate reporting as needed.·         Design, develop and deliver analytic projects as assigned, including delivering analytics insights and making health plan recommendations as appropriate.·         Work with OSHP staff to develop and prioritize an analytics calendar which anticipates the analytics activities to be completed over a given year.·         Recommend to OSHP leadership to improve the design and development process and delivery of reports and dashboards, as appropriate.·         Recommend to OSHP leadership opportunities for cost savings or areas for program improvement based on insights developed through analytics projects.·         Develop and deliver monthly and other regular reporting on program expenditures, service utilization, enrollment and other areas to meet ETF business needs.·         Recommend and monitor healthcare quality metrics and ensure quality metrics are documented, tracked and trended (e.g. NCQA, HEDIS, AHRQ ACO, MU).·         Document, model, create, refresh and monitor healthcare quality metrics in scorecard and/or dashboards. Position Description ·         The Healthcare Business Intelligence/ Business Analyst Consultant will support the Group Insurance Board and the Department of Employee Trust Funds (ETF) with decision-making and program management functions for the Group Health Insurance Program. The position will perform a variety of data analytics, will develop program reports and dashboards, provide leadership to a small project team, and provide staff training in all these areas. ·         Specifically, the position will support health insurance initiatives by analyzing and discussing population health, cost, utilization, cost/benefit, data quality, financial trends, health plan and provider performance, provider network access, clinical quality performance, and health outcome gaps with OSHP team members. ·         In addition, the position will be responsible for working with staff to identify business needs and design, develop and deliver a variety of reports and dashboards to make data available for management of the program. The HBIC will also be responsible for training others on the availability and use of reports and dashboards. ·         The HBIC will work with others to determine business requirements, priorities, define key performance indicators (KPI), and develop the business intelligence and data management strategy. ·         This position reports to the Director of the Office of Strategic Health Policy (OSHP) and will work most closely with staff in OSHP, but will also work closely with staff in the Division of Trust Finance (DTF), the Employer Services Section (ESS) of the Employer and Contact Services Bureau, and the Bureau of Information Technology Services (BITS) among others. Duties and Responsibilities: ·         Business Requirements and Analysis·         Perform analysis for a wide range of requests using data in different formats and from various platforms. ·         Research problems and create models that help analyze these problems. ·         Make recommendations after exploring data and discovering patterns, meaningful relationships, anomalies and trends. Communicate the results of this exploration to OSHP partners and explain its meaningfulness. Recommend potential program opportunities that could result. ·         Collaborate with OSHP and other ETF staff to identify analytic and reporting needs and develop appropriate reporting as needed. ·         Design, develop and deliver analytic projects as assigned, including delivering analytics insights and making health plan recommendations as appropriate. ·         Work with OSHP staff to develop and prioritize an analytics calendar which anticipates the analytics activities to be completed over a given year. ·         Recommend to OSHP leadership to improve the design and development process and delivery of reports and dashboards, as appropriate. ·         Recommend to OSHP leadership opportunities for cost savings or areas for program improvement based on insights developed through analytics projects. ·         Develop and deliver monthly and other regular reporting on program expenditures, service utilization, enrollment and other areas to meet ETF business needs.  Quality Metrics ·         Recommend and monitor healthcare quality metrics and ensure quality metrics are documented, tracked and trended (e.g. NCQA, HEDIS, AHRQ ACO, MU). ·         Document, model, create, refresh and monitor healthcare quality metrics in scorecard and/or dashboards. ·         Participate in policy development to encourage improvement of quality metrics.  Leadership ·         Provide leadership to the project team to ensure that best practices are followed for BI, data warehousing, and data governance. ·         Plan, organize, prioritize and monitor technical work effectively to meet key milestones and business objectives. ·         Facilitate meetings to elicit requirements for the reporting needs. ·         Provide coordination for technical tasks and problem resolution. ·         Guide understanding of how business processes and future business needs are impacted by the system data, database components, data element relationships, principles and guidelines governing its use, distribution, and maintenance.  Education/Experience ·         Bachelor"s degree in Applied Mathematics, Statistics, Computer Science, Economics or specialized training/certification. Or equivalent work experience. ·         Requires 7 or more years of healthcare Business Intelligence/Analysis, Data Analysis or related technical experience. ·         Requires 7-10 years’ experience in the healthcare or insurance industry. ·         Advanced degree in Healthcare Informatics preferred.  Core Competencies ·         Healthcare Business Knowledge ·         Healthcare Data·         Business Requirements Analysis ·         Communications·         Information and Analytics·         Technology ·         Other Preferred Competencies             
