

REAL WORLD DATA SCIENTIST (HEOR)PLAINSBORO, NJ  Required Skills:Master"s degree in appropriate field required (e.g., epidemiology, biostatistics, computer science). 	At least 3 years of experience in analytic research in clinical and business decision making; analytic experience on real world data & big data preferred. 	Start long term indefinite need; will likely be needed until 1+ year cap.	Must have quantitative research background (i.e. epidemiology or statistics) - programming skills. 	PhD preferred. 	Strong analytic skills using SAS and/or R and other analytic software. 	Strong communication and critical thinking skills. 	Strong business acumen and a team player. 	Works well under pressure, with initiative to take on unfamiliar tasks. 	Approximately 5 - 10% overnight travel. Project Description: The Real World Data (RWD) Scientist conducts specific in-house HEOR studies across the entire client portfolio. In addition, the incumbent also coordinates certain department-wide activities including but not limited to HEOR website, staff meetings, HEOR Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Research Review Committee (RRC) meetings, and key contacts with outside researchers. S/he may also participate in HEOR studies and research projects as a research project manager. The RWD Scientist, reports to the Head of RWD and works closely with all colleagues in the HEOR department.  Perform real world data analyses: Performs analyses for in-house projects based on the "Database Warehouse”, in close collaboration with HEOR program leads. 	Support entire portfolio: Leverages methodological and analytical expertise and access to databases to support key strategic initiatives across the entire company portfolio such as product strategy, HEOR methodologies and policy for the US market. 	Serve as an internal research method expert: Acts as a key subject matter expert in various methodological and analytic functions and provides consultation to / collaborates with key internal and external stakeholders directly to provide tangible solutions that are aligned to portfolio strategy. 	Coordinate across projects: Supports all analyses of the HEOR data warehouse and supports various HEOR research projects either done internally or with third party (e.g. vendor) relationships as needed. 	Support HEOR studies and programs: Works closely with HEOR researchers as a member of the research team on select research projects.       This 6+ month position starts ASAP. Please E-MAIL your resume (attachment to email) with rate and availability to Cheryl: cambrose@alphaconsulting.comHelp  ALPHA"S REQUIREMENT #18-00382 MUST BE ELIGIBLE TO WORK IN THE U.S. AS AN HOURLY W2 EMPLOYEE            
