

Job DescriptionJob Title: Associate Data ScientistLocation: Portland, OR Reports To: Manager, Data Science Come join us!  comScore is a media measurement company providing multiscreen reporting and analytics with cutting-edge technology to serve clients in the entertainment, media, retail, and advertising industries. comScore"s data science team helps design the intelligent engines that power the company"s advanced Movies & TV Everywhere measurement systems. Through our research, comScore builds projections that make the massive amount of raw data we take in from screens across the world meaningful and useful for our clients. We are currently seeking an Associate Data Scientist to add to our growing company of talented team members. If you"re hardworking and enjoy a cooperative work environment, we"re offering a place where you can work alongside talented peers on interesting, dynamic, and fun projects. We"re a small enough company that you can make a big difference here, but we"re big enough to reach a national audience.  Essential duties include: Validate, analyze, and conduct statistical analysis on data using analytical software (Excel, SQL, and SAS). Analyze and define efficient, workable solutions that support client business processes and functional requirements for research projects. Extract qualitative findings from large data sets. Write reports that include effective graphs, tables, summaries, and narratives. Develop and execute test cases to ensure data requirements have been met. Research and resolve client-reported issues. Interpret results, present findings, and recommend alternative solutions to research management and business decision makers.  Track daily industry news and disseminate relevant articles to management and teamQualifications and Required Skills: Bachelor Degree in Statistics, Decision Sciences, Economics, Physics, Mathematics, Engineering or similar field required. Experience with SQL, Python or other programming language Highly competent in data manipulation and critical thinking. Intrinsic ability to look at data and identify patterns, problems, or analysis opportunities. Knowledge of data mining and software applications. Ability to distill large amounts of information into key findings. The ability to clearly articulate research in written and verbal presentations with software developers, clients, management, and sales staff. Data management experience with one or more data analysis packages (e.g. SPSS, SAS, STATA, R) required. Experience with Excel, including pivot tables, formulae, VLOOKUP’s, and graphing Strong organizational skills including the ability to multi-task and prioritize efficiently to meet deadlines. Strong attention to detail and problem-solving skills. Self-motivated, takes initiative, loves to learn, and continuously seeks new knowledge. Strong documentation skills from both a business and technology perspective. Effective troubleshooting and investigation skills to identify root cause of problems. Proven ability to manage and perform multiple tasks under conditions of fluctuating workloads, competing requirements, and changing deadlines while maintaining accuracy; working independently and completing assignments with minimal direction. Self-starter who is self-motivated, efficient, responsible, and dependable. ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO CANDIDATES WITH: Experience in the television/media research industry is a plus. About comScore: comScore is a leading cross-platform measurement company that measures audiences, brands and consumer behavior everywhere. comScore completed its merger with Rentrak Corporation in January 2016, to create the new model for a dynamic, cross-platform world. Built on precision and innovation, comScore’s data footprint combines proprietary digital, TV and movie intelligence with vast demographic details to quantify consumers’ multiscreen behavior at massive scale. This approach helps media companies monetize their complete audiences and allows marketers to reach these audiences more effectively. With more than 3,200 clients and a global footprint in more than 70 countries, comScore is delivering the future of measurement.  Shares of comScore stock are currently traded on the OTC Market (OTC:SCOR). For more information on comScore, please visit comscore.com. EEO Statement: We are an equal employment opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability status, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, protected veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law.  *LI-JZ1 *MSJA    
