

Data Scientist




McKesson
•
Scottsdale, AZ


Posted 21 days ago




Full-Time


Employment - Recruiting - Staffing


Other, Professional Services



Job Description

McKesson is in the business of better health and we touch the lives of patients in virtually every aspect of healthcare. We partner with payors, hospitals, physician offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and others across the spectrum of care to build healthier organizations that deliver better care to patients in every setting. We believe in the importance of strong, vital organizations because we know that patients can only be healthy when our system is healthy. Every single McKesson employee contributes to our missionby joining McKesson you act as a catalyst in a chain of events that helps millions of people all over the globe. Talented, compassionate people are the future of our companyand of healthcare. At McKesson, you'll collaborate on the products and solutions that help us carry out our mission to improve lives and advance healthcare. Working here is your opportunity to shape an industry that's vital to us all. We understand the importance of a system that works together. Your expertise, drive and passion can help us improve everything we touch, from providers to payors to pharmacies. Join our team of leaders to begin a rewarding career. Wherever you contribute here at McKesson, you will have the ability to make a real impact in the lives of others. Current NeedThe Data Scientist for McKesson Data & Analytics (mDNA) will be based in our Atlanta office. As part of the mDNA team, the person will provide in-depth advanced analytical insights while working in a cross-functional team environment to solve business problems. By providing critical analytics support, this person will work with Senior Data Scientists to develop insights and analytics models to help key stakeholders. The role will require analytical skills and tactical responsibilities to provide insights and recommendations. Position DescriptionThe Data Scientist will perform the following: Project Support: o Support a cross-functional team and provide in-depth data insights for complex business problems that can be approached with advanced analytics o Work closely with the Sr. Data Scientist to deliver results o Coordinate and collaborate with program managers and other internal stakeholders including gathering requirements and modeling criteria o Leverage tools and resources to plan, evaluate and execute strategic initiatives o Continuously improve processes and operations Advanced Analytics: o Rapidly perform exploratory data analysis, generate and test working hypotheses, and uncover interesting trends and relationships o Analyze and model structured data and implement algorithms to support analysis using advanced statistical and mathematical methods from statistics, data mining, econometrics, and operations research o Perform advanced analytics techniques to mine unstructured data, using methods such as document clustering, topic analysis, named entity recognition, and document classification (machine learning and natural language processing is a plus) o Strong understanding of large database mining tools and statistical languages utilized to efficiently build approaches and execute on analytical use cases. Specific experience with R, Python, Hive, Pig, Spark, SAS, Hadoop (MapReduce, HBASE), Java, Trifacta, H2O, Tableau and SQL is preferred. Experience with SAP and IBM DataStage is also beneficial. o Communicate results and educate others through reports and presentations QualificationsMinimum Qualifications5+ years of experience Critical SkillsBachelor degree with a minimum of 5 years of related experience; MS with a minimum of 2 years of related experience; PhD, with degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering, Econometrics, or related fields Strong quantitative analysis background and experience in working with large, complex data systems to aggregate, organize, and prepare data for use in business analysis Strong mathematical background with strong knowledge in at least one of the following fields: statistics, data mining, statistics, operations research, econometrics, and/or information retrieval (machine learning and natural language processing is a plus) Deep experience in extracting, cleaning, preparing and modeling data Experience with command-line scripting, data structures, and algorithms; ability to work in a Linux environment Data visualization and/or power point presentation skills to effectively communicate insights is a plus Proficiency in analysis (i.e. R, and SAS) packages Up to 10 15% travel may be required (domestic and international) Additional Knowledge & Skills Able to use sound judgment and prioritize Must be flexible, team oriented and able to accept and create change Fast and capable learner Enjoys working with numbers and data sets Enjoys process improvement projects Mature Confidence/Integrity Results Oriented, Enthusiastic, Creative thinker EducationBachelor degree with a minimum of 5 years of related experience; MS with a minimum of 2 years of related experience; PhD, with degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering, Econometrics, or related fields Physical RequirementsGeneral Office DemandsPhysical RequirementsGeneral Office DemandsBenefits & Company Statement McKesson believes superior performance individual and team that helps us drive innovations and solutions to promote better health should be recognized and rewarded. We provide a competitive compensation program to attract, retain and motivate a high-performance workforce, and it's flexible enough to meet the different needs of our diverse employee population. We are in the business of better health and we touch the lives of patients in virtually every aspect of healthcare. We partner with payers, hospitals, physician offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and others across the spectrum of care to build healthier organizations that deliver better care to patients in every setting. But we can't do it without you. Every single McKesson employee contributes to our missionwhatever your title, whatever your role, you act as a catalyst in a chain of events that helps millions of people all over the globe. Talented, compassionate people are the future of our companyand of healthcare. At McKesson, you'll collaborate on the products and solutions that help us carry out our mission to improve lives and advance healthcare. Working here is your opportunity to shape an industry that's vital to us all. McKesson is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer minorities/females/veterans/persons with disabilities. Qualified applicants will not be disqualified from consideration for employment based upon criminal history. Agency StatementNo agencies please.


