

 INFORMATION SERVICES DEPARTMENT Safety National is an alternative market insurance provider that offers a broad range of risk funding products through insurance agents and brokers. Founded in 1942, Safety National is the leading provider of excess workers’ compensation coverage to self-insured employers and groups nationwide, and has provided that type of coverage longer than any other company in the United States. The company continues to expand and adapt its product lines to better meet the needs of today’s employer. Safety National recently celebrated its third year of being named a “Best Place to Work” by Business Insurance magazine.JOB SUMMARY:  Professional position, which writes software utilizing analytics and machine learning to achieve the business goals and objectives of the company. Works under immediate supervision. Demonstrates clear and working knowledge and concepts of software development, data science and learning algorithms. Responsible for the internal application programming and analysis of requirements using various technologies.   ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:  At Safety National, we live by the following five core values:  Relationships, Integrity, Teamwork, Balance and Stability.  Our Core Values serve as the fundamental foundation of our corporate culture and drive our interactions, both internally and externally.  An essential function of all Safety National positions is to fully embrace and represent these core values in our daily work life and relationships. Demonstrates up-to-date expertise in Software Engineering and applies this to the development, execution, and improvement of action plans.Implements most recent algorithms and approaches for machine learning in collaboration with our data analysts,actuaries, claims experts and underwriters.Designs best architecture and selects the most appropriate modeling techniques and data visualization for big data analysis.Writes complex code utilizing machine learning and data science on a daily basis that contributes to the success of software development projects, as instructed by leads or managersInitiates and participates in projects in the areas of prediction, optimization, and processes using advanced statistical / mathematical approaches, in the enterprise environment.Responsible for timely achievement of milestones and project completion ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:  Documents program and operation procedures to insure integrity and accuracy of information.Effectively communicates status of work through all phases of assigned tasksAdheres to development department policies and proceduresExperience in hands-on software developmentAbility to capture customer requirements and translate them into software specifications QUALIFICATIONS:  Education/Experience (Must meet at least two of the following criteria):A Bachelor’s degree A minimum of 3 years of working experience in the Data Science or a related field.Excellent written, analytical, problem solving and verbal communication skills.Minimum of 2 years’ experience in machine learning development.Ability to set priorities, meet deadlines, and work independentlyAbility to work in a fast-paced environment and handle multiple prioritiesAbility to work in a team environment Motivated, self-directed, results-oriented, and customer-focusedClearly demonstrates talent to write code and follow best practices.P & C Insurance experience a plus   NOTE:In order to meet the needs of the Corporation, employees may be assigned other duties in addition to or in lieu of those described above.  For consideration, please visit our website at:   https://www.safetynational.com/careersitem/data-scientist/ You can then submit your resume along with a completed and signed employment application (found on the right hand side of the web page).If you have any issues submitting your information via this website, please email:  SNCCrecruitment@safetynational.comHelp. Safety National will only accept resumes and applications from qualified applicants for particular job postings.  Resumes and applications submitted that are not identified with a specific job posting will not be reviewed.  Safety National reserves the right to unilaterally determine whether or not a particular applicant is qualified for any position with the Company. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Outstanding Medical, Dental and Vision Coverage.  Employee and Children covered at no cost, low cost for Spousal coverage. Medical Deductible Reimbursement Plan Life/AD&D Insurance, Short Term Disability and Long Term Disability provided at no cost to employee. 401k Savings and Profit-Sharing Plan Pre-Tax Dependent Care Assistance Plan  Tuition Reimbursement Paid Leave and Holidays Alternate Work Schedules Business Casual Dress Policy EEO STATEMENT Safety National is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer and will not discriminate against or harass any applicant or employee on any grounds prohibited under any federal, state or local law including race, creed, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status or membership in any other legally protected class.  None of the questions in our application are intended to elicit information regarding any protected characteristics, nor imply any limitation, illegal preferences or discrimination based upon non-job related information or protected characteristics.             
