

Category:  OtherJob Type:  Full-TimeLocation:    Houston Methodist Research Institute6670 Bertner Ave Houston, TX Work Shift: DAYWork Week: M - FJob SummaryJOB SUMMARYThe responsibility of the Data Scientist is to address the best uses of data science and informatics development for providing a competitive advantage or addressing pressing clinical or business problems in HMH operations and care, as well as to communicate informed conclusions and recommendations across an organization¿s leadership structure. The data scientist not only looks at data from a single source, such as electronic medical record, but will most likely explore and examine data from multiple disparate sources and many angles, including the organization¿s needs to access and understand clinical, financial, operational, population health, social, behavior, and marketing data. Under the guidance and direction of the head of Informatics Initiative, they will work closely with physicians, care givers, hospital staff, administrators, and other stakeholders to implement projects of clinical and business benefits. These projects for this role will include, but not limited to: workflow optimization, innovative tracking, predictive analytics, decision supports, advanced analytics, outcomes measures, cost reduction, quality improvement, population health management, statistical and advanced modeling techniques to different types of health, cost, and media data, and coordinate with clinicians and developing recommendations and presentations for a variety of audiences and stakeholders. The Data Scientist should leverage the information in HMH enterprise data warehouse and EPIC electronic medical record as well as adhere to data definition standards set by the Hospital Data Governance committee. The job also promotes and supports system and department specific ICARE values.The candidate should have a good foundation typically in computer science and applications, modeling, statistics, and analytics. He or she should have strong business acumen, coupled with the ability to communicate findings to both business and IT leaders in a way that can influence how an organization approaches a business challenge.PATIENT AGE GROUP SERVEDSelect the applicable age group(s) of primary customers/patients served by this position.¿ Not applicable¿ Neonate (Birth to 28 days)¿ Infants/Toddlers (29 days to 18 months)¿ Toddler (18 months to 3 years)¿ Preschooler (3-6 years)¿ School Age (6-12 years)¿ Adolescence (12-18 years)¿ Young Adult (19-40 Years)¿ Middle Adult (40-65 Years)¿ Mature Adult (65 years and older)HOUSTON METHODIST EXPERIENCE EXPECTATIONSI. Provide personalized care and service by consistently demonstrating our I CARE values:INTEGRITY: We are honest and ethical in all we say and do.COMPASSION: We embrace the whole person including emotional, ethical, physical, and spiritual needs.ACCOUNTABILITY: We hold ourselves accountable for all our actions.RESPECT: We treat every individual as a person of worth, dignity, and value.EXCELLENCE: We strive to be the best at what we do and a model for others to emulate.II. Focuses on patient/customer safetyIII. Delivers personalized service using HM Service StandardsIV. Provides for exceptional patient/customer experiences by following our Standards of Practice of always using Positive Language (AIDET, Managing Up, Key Words)V. Intentionally rounds with patients/customers to ensure their needs are being met.VI. Involves patients (customers) in shift/handoff reports by enabling their participation in their plan of care as applicable to the given jobPRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITIESPEOPLE (15%)1. Manages client relationships as assigned, by leading the delivery of innovative strategies and solutions for our clients (EF).2. Presents project progresses and results to the stakeholders.3. Reports to the Head of Informatics Development Department of HMH IT.FINANCE (10%)1. Applies good fiscal management practices2. Manages the continuous improvement of clinical and operational data and analytics.QUALITY/SAFETY (20%)1. Be knowledgeable on clinical data quality issues and assurance as well as patient privacy and data security and compliance.2. Documents the project requirements and results on a timely basis.SERVICE (35%)1. Drives the data analytics insights across the hospital system.2. Drives the execution of multiple analytical plans and projects.3. Identify data elements within the clinical/health databases for analytics and decision supports.GROWTH/INNOVATION (20%)1. Consults with clinicians and hospital staff regarding process improvement, delivery of best outcomes, decision supports, data insights and recommendations.2. Translates the findings into implementable informatics solutions with the clinicians, hospital administration, and other stakeholders.This job description is not intended to be all inclusive; the employee will also perform other reasonably related business/job duties as assigned. Houston Methodist reserves the right to revise job duties and responsibilities as the need arises.EDUCATION REQUIREMENTSMaster"s Degree in Computer Science, Clinical Informatics, Public Health Administration, Business Administration, or Engineering, or an MD with experience in Computing, Informatics, and Statistics.EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTSAt least 4 years of experience in data analytics and/or database management in a healthcare organization.CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND REGISTRATIONS REQUIREDNoneKNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES REQUIRED¿ Experience with clinical settings and healthcare administration.¿ Experience with statistical, database and algorithm modeling preferred.¿ Experience implementing and managing Health IT software prototyping and applications.¿ Experience in process mapping and analytics.¿ Experience on decision support methodology and advanced analytics.¿ Experience of clinical/health data integration in a health care IT environment.¿ Great communications skills, both verbal and written a must ¿ especially as it pertains to communicating complicated technical concepts to non-technical stakeholders.¿ Proven interaction skills with clinicians and hospital administrators.¿ Sufficient proficiency in speaking, reading, and writing the English language necessary to perform the essential functions of this job, especially with regard to activities impacting patient or employee safety or security.¿ Ability to effectively communicate with patients, physicians, family members and co-workers in a manner consistent with a customer service focus and application of positive language principles.Equal Employment OpportunityHouston Methodist is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Equal employment opportunity is a sound and just concept to which Houston Methodist is firmly bound. Houston Methodist will not engage in discrimination against or harassment of any person employed or seeking employment with Houston Methodist on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,national origin, age, disability, status as a protected veteran or other characteristics protected by law.VEVRAA Federal Contractor - priority referral Protected Veterans requested.Company ProfileHouston Methodist Research Institute was formed in 2004 to rapidly and efficiently translate discoveries made in the laboratory and the clinic into new diagnostics, therapies and treatments. The research institute was created to provide the infrastructure and support for these endeavors, and to house the technology and resources needed to make innovative breakthroughs in important areas of human disease. A 540,000 square foot building dedicated to research, the research institute houses over 1,500 staff and trainees, 277 principal investigators and has more than 840 ongoing clinical trials.Company Description:At Houston Methodist, we take our responsibility as the region’s premier health care system seriously.With a national reputation for excellence in patient care, education and research, we hold ourselves — and the careers we build — to a higher standard. We invite you to find your place among the best of the best, and to stand with us in earning the trust of millions of people across the Houston Metro area every day.Houston Methodist is comprised of a nationally recognized academic medical center and six community hospitals with a history of health care innovation. For the tenth straight year we have been named to FORTUNE’s list of “100 Best Companies to Work For” and have also been ranked the no.1 hospital in Texas by U.S. News & World Report.Discover the difference for yourself and join Houston Methodist.
