

Job Req ID: 157282Position Number: 00162793Employment Type: Full TimeShift: Variable/On CallShift Details: Standard Hours:?40.00Department Name: OPR AdministrationLocation: Therapeutic Research and DevelLocation Details:? 1540 Garden TerraceCarolinas HealthCare System is Atrium Health. Our mission remains the same: to improve health, elevate hope and advance healing - for all. The name Atrium Health allows us to grow beyond our current walls and geographical borders to impact as many lives as possible and deliver solutions that help communities thrive. For more information, please visit carolinashealthcare.org/AtriumHealth??Job SummaryThe Data Scientist for Clinical and Outcomes Research is responsible for conducting research to inform quality improvement and patient care in the area of Population Health. Key responsibilities include experimental design, analysis and integration of complex and diverse data, interpretation of findings, scientific writing and leadership of teams and projects. Requires experience using advanced statistical and computational methods. Collaborates with CHS researchers and faculty from other institutions in ongoing and planned research activities and provides analytical and research methodology consulting to CHS investigators. Requires regular and frequent exercise of independent judgment and decision-making in sensitive situations.?Essential Functions?Contributes to the development of a robust research program in Population Health. Conducts research without direct supervision.With minimal guidance, uses advanced statistical and computational methodologies to deliver insights and identify strategic opportunities to inform system-wide Population Health strategiesPartners with physicians, epidemiologists, research scientists and other leadership across CHS to assess their information and analytical support needs.Proactively monitors, integrates, analyzes and interprets complex information generated from multiple sources (epidemiology, laboratory, patient records, etc.) to investigate, understand, diagnose, and continuously improve system-wide performanceTranslates business/research questions into requirements to define testable research designs or business solutionsCreates timelines for project management with little or no assistance. Ensures successful completion of assigned projects on schedule, within budget, and in accordance with CHS standards and ethicsRepresents CHS in collaborative research studies with investigators at other local, regional national and international institutionsWrites reports suitable for both technical and non-technical audiences to communicate analytical and research resultsWrites manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed journalsPrepares abstracts, authors presentations and presents research at local, national and international scientific meetingsFosters and maintains collegial interactions with and supervision of team members, technical staff, physicians, faculty, students, research fellows, external collaborators and visiting scientistsProvides leadership for safety and quality assurance activities and maintenance of compliance with the terms of medical center policies and procedures.Conducts research in accordance with compliance and safety standards.Carries out other responsibilities as determined by CHS leadership.?Physical RequirementsWorks in an office environment, sitting at a desk, working with a computer, and talking on the telephone. On occasion, requires standing, walking and traveling in personal car to other facilities. Also occasionally requires the carrying of up to 20 pounds of materials (files, projectors, laptops).Education, Experience and CertificationsRequires a PhD in Statistics, Epidemiology, Health Services Research, Economics, Operations Research, Applied Mathematics, or closely related areas . Minimum of 7 years professional experience or equivalent combination of education and experience that provide the skills and knowledge necessary to perform the job requirements. At least 7 years of experience with SAS and/or R, other data mining tools, databases, and computer programming required; SAS certification preferred; experience with Enterprise Miner preferred. Experience with healthcare claims, pharmaceutical, and EHR data preferred. Excellent oral, written, and technical communication skills and a solid command of the English language; Demonstrated ability to communicate complex relationships and concepts using data to drive change. Experience in group presentation and public speaking. The ideal candidate will have a PhD in Epidemiology, Health Services Research or closely related with extensive coursework.????At Carolinas HealthCare System, our patients, communities and teammates are at the center of everything we do. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion allows us to deliver care that is superior in quality and compassion across our network of more than 900 care locations.?As a leading, innovative health system, we promote an environment where differences are valued and integrated into our workforce. Our culture of inclusion and cultural competence allows us to achieve our goals and deliver the best possible experience to patients and the communities we serve.?Posting Notes: Not ApplicableCarolinas HealthCare System is an EOE/AA EmployerCompany Description:Carolinas HealthCare System, one of the nation’s leading and most innovative healthcare organizations provides a full spectrum of healthcare and wellness programs throughout North and South Carolina. Its diverse network of facilities includes academic medical centers, approximately 38 hospitals, freestanding emergency department, more than 700 physician practices, behavioral health center, surgical and rehabilitation centers, home health agencies, hospice and palliative care services, and nursing homes.For nearly 70 years, our system of exceptional facilities has been providing care that improves our community and the lives of our patients and employees.At Carolinas HealthCare System, we are One team, delivering care through more than 11 million patient encounters. Our teammates share millions of reasons to be proud of their work and the contributions they make every day. We invite you to learn more about Carolinas HealthCare System, and discover all the possibilities ONE system has to offer.
