

Company Overview and ValuesWhy work at Entegris?Lead. Inspire. Innovate. Define Your Future.Not everyone who works for a global company shares the same background, experiences and perspectives. We leverage the differences of our employees to bring new ideas to the table. Every employee throughout the company is encouraged to share input on projects and initiatives. Our decision making process is truly a collaborative effort as we realize there are leaders at every level of the organization.We put our values at the core of how we operate as an organization — not just when it’s convenient, but in a lasting and meaningful way. We want the time and energy you spend here to have a positive impact on your life inside and outside of the office.Entegris is a values-driven culture and our employees rally around our core PACE values:PeopleAccountabilityCreativityExcellenceThe RoleSAP HANA, SAP S/4 BPC and Integrated Business Planning are the exciting themes facing us in the coming years at Entegris. We are looking for an associate level SAP Data Scientist who is excited to learn SAP from the bottom up and become a part of our global team of highly experienced analysts.In this role you willUnderstand business processes which create and consume data so as to be able to select best approaches, evaluate their performance and assess business relevance Work with super users to understand business processes. Create data models and algorithms from huge volumes data. Learn to use Business Intelligence tools and develop new reporting Use their ability to visualize data and present core insights in a clear and compelling way Participate in projects as needed and directed by manager Model and work according to Entegris project management methodology; Continuously reviews new technology, functionality, and procedures to enhance and improve Entegris’ processes; Participate in developing individual skill sets to meettoday and tomorrow’s business needs.Traits we believe make a strong candidateBachelor’s Degree in Business and/or computer science/information technology or similar Ability to travel up to 25% during more complex projectsYour success will be measured byContributions to team goals and ensuring tasks and projects are completed to the highest standards.What we offer:Our total rewards package goes above and beyond just a paycheck. Whether you’re looking to build your career, improve your health, or protect your wealth, we offer generous benefits to help you achieve your goals.Very Competitive total compensation plans. A 401(K) plan to help you plan for your future with an impressive employer match that’s all yours- no vesting! Great health, dental and vision insurance packages to fit your needs to ensure you’re happy and healthy. A progressive PTO policy that empowers our employees to take the time they need to recharge!At Entegris we are committed to providing equal opportunity to all employees and applicants. Our policy is to recruit, hire, train, and reward employees for their individual abilities, achievements and experience without regard to race, color, religion, sexual orientation, age, national origin, disability, marital or military status.            
