

Altamira is a top open source technology company in the national security space. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Altamira serves the defense, intelligence and homeland security communities by focusing on creating innovative solutions leveraging common standards in architecture, data and security.This is a position for on-site work located in Tampa, FL (must relocate/there is no remote work for this position).This position will require a TS/SCI security clearance. The Data Scientist position is responsible for applying data science and data characterization technologies and will report to the on-site program manager. Altamira is developing and integrating forward looking technologies to enhance the Air Force world-wide mission, maturing its architecture of hardware, software, advanced analytics and advanced intelligence problem solving.This is an expert position and the successful candidate must work across diverse projects in a dynamic and collaborative environment. They will develop understanding of established enterprise tools/processes while pursuing novel advanced analytic approaches using both large and small datasets. They will overcome challenges and be a determined problem-solver; pursuing innovation opportunities while delivering real results to move projects forward in an enterprise R&D environment.The Data Scientist will conduct end to end analysis; and apply novel solutions from the best of academia, open source, and commercial against our most challenging problems. They will assess and discover technology developments, determine relevance to projects, and operationally prototype them against real world data and problems in actual code using agile development techniques. Results must be documented in writing and communicated both verbally and through multi-media and advanced visualization methods to senior management. They will interact cross-functionally with a wide variety of people and identify opportunities to incorporate advanced analytics into existing workflows. The Data Scientist should have knowledge of all source analysis, and the numerous defense intelligence tools, databases, techniques in the Defense Intelligence Enterprise or substantially equivalent knowledge from other government or the private sector analytic community Altamira is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or protected veteran status.            
