

 Sarah Cannon  is the research arm of HCA"s global cancer enterprise. Focused on advancing therapies for patients, it is one of the world"s leading clinical research organizations conducting community-based clinical trials in oncology, cardiology and orthopedics through affiliations with a network of more than 1,000 physicians across the United States and United Kingdom.  We believe our success is dependent on a healthy work environment where staff members are the core of advancing therapies for patients and accelerating drug development. We apply the same compassion and commitment we have for our patients to our co-workers and colleagues and promote an entrepreneurial culture.  Summary of Key Responsibilities:  The Senior Director, Health Outcomes will play a critical role in contributing to the growth of the clinical evidence and outcomes program across the Sarah Cannon Care network. This position will coordinate with colleagues in strategic development, clinical programs, IT, and Development Innovations to lead outcomes, health economics, prospective/retrospective data, real world data, patient reported outcomes and epidemiologic research projects. Duties and Responsibilities:  Duties include but are not limited to:  Collaborate with physician and clinical thought leaders in the design and application of outcomes/health economics research in alignment with strategic goals.  Support concept development, protocol design, and analytic plan development for outcomes research and discovery projects  Develop and administer data collection instruments to support outcomes research projects  Build and manage strategic internal and external relationships in order to expand existing outcomes projects, develop new opportunities, facilitate work and achieve business goals.  In collaboration with key thought leaders, actively participate in the full continuum of care pathway development and on-going review/edit. Will actively promote outcomes projects that demonstrate the impact of care pathways and clinical programs on patients, providers, and health care economics.  Collaborate with cross-functional colleagues to implement and evolve Data Systems Architecture to support analytic-based outcomes research and real-world-evidence efforts.  Take an active role in data interpretation, manuscript and presentation development. General Leadership Duties:Provide creative leadership and customized solutions ensuring productive relationships with Sarah Cannon leadership/staff, research sites, and other internal and external customers.Work interactively with all functions of the company to help achieve the company"s vision.Collaborate with Senior Management on strategic planning; provide effective leadership in assessments, report generation, and resolution facilitation of problems as needed.Maintain a high degree of awareness of the current scientific state and advances in relation to clinical research programs by attendance at relevant symposia, scientific meetings and workshops, and review of key journals.Maintain strictest confidentiality.Qualifications:Knowledge:  A deep understanding of oncology, research methods, applied statistics, data mining, predictive modeling and forecasting in order to guide and support research that provides clear and actionable insights and strategic direction for business leaders.  Hands-on experience working with/analyzing diverse data assets: EMR, medical claims, cancer registry, publicly available administrative datasets (population health surveys, hospital discharge data)  Expertise in research methodology: study design (randomized controlled clinical trials, observational studies, interventional research), subject recruitment, survey design, defining/developing clinical and patient reported outcomes  Technical knowledge and capabilities: SAS, R, STATA, SPSS, SQL (should have working knowledge of at least one analytical software)  Strong knowledge of statistical modeling, econometric, or data mining tools and methods to support clinical and epidemiological research.  Familiarity with linear models (linear regression, generalized linear regression, logistical regression) and nonlinear modeling techniques such as decision trees.  Working knowledge of FDA/GCP and research site operations/requirements.  Skills:  Advanced leadership skills.  Well-developed interpersonal skills; ability to develop and maintain collaborative clinical research relationships.  Strong communication and presentation skills; ability to convey complex information to diverse audiences  Advanced business analytic skills, problem solving and creative thinking skills   Abilities:  Ability to think strategically across disciplines and projects  Proactive mentality  Customer service oriented  Committed to individual and team success   Education  Masters or above in statistics, mathematics, computer science or other applied science field or equivalent; Relevant experience is a plus  Doctorate Degree preferred  Experience:  Epidemiology, health economics and/or outcomes research in the context of a healthcare, academic, pharmaceutical or biotech company Company Description:At its founding in 1968, Nashville-based HCA was one of the nation"s first hospital companies. Today, we are the nation"s leading provider of healthcare services, a company comprised of locally managed facilities that includes about 165 hospitals and 115 freestanding surgery centers in 20 states and England and employing approximately 204,000 people. Approximately four to five percent of all inpatient care delivered in the country today is provided by HCA facilities. Milton Johnson serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of HCA.
