

About Engility:Engility delivers innovative solutions to critical challenges facing the nation and the world. As a premier provider of integrated services for the U.S. government, we support the Department of Defense, intelligence community, space communities, federal civilian agencies and international customers. Engility is dedicated to making lives better, safer and more secure.Description:Description:  This A&AS position reports to the DTRA IAA Advanced Analytics Lead in the DTRA R&D Advanced Analytics Division. The data scientist will be the lead researcher/subject matter expert for working with the national laboratory scientists, engineers and performers to develop and transition enhanced analytic capabilities within and external to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. Perform as a subject matter expert with Artificial intelligence and a background in machine learning. This person must have the experience to work autonomously with minimal oversight and supervision.  Duties: - Employ sophisticated analytics programs, machine learning and statistical methods to prepare data for use in predictive and prescriptive modeling - Oversee the extraction of data from multiple internal and external sources - Explore and examine data from a variety of angles to determine hidden weaknesses, trends and/or opportunities - Devise data-driven solutions to the most pressing challenges and capability gaps - Invent new algorithms to solve problems and build new tools to automate work - Communicate predictions and findings to management through effective data visualizations and reports - Recommend cost-effective changes to existing procedures and strategiesQualifications:- PhD in Math & Statistics, Computer Science or Engineering - Machine learning tools and techniques (e.g. k-nearest neighbors, random forests, ensemble methods, etc.) - Proven leadership skills in operational environment - Familiarity with the analyticalDesired Qualifications:- math (e.g. linear algebra, calculus and probability) - statistics (e.g. hypothesis testing and summary statistics) - Software engineering Skills (e.g. distributed computing, algorithms and Data structures) - Data mining - Data cleaning and munging - DatEEO Statement:Engility Corporation is committed to hiring and retaining a diverse workforce. We are proud to be an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer, making decisions without regard to race, color, religion, creed, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, age, veteran status, disability, or any other protected class. U.S. citizenship is required for most positions. For our complete EEO/AA and Pay Transparency statements, please click here .            
