

Huntington Ingalls Industries is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, HII’s Newport News Shipbuilding and Ingalls Shipbuilding divisions in Virginia and Mississippi have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. HII’s Technical Solutions division provides a wide range of professional services through its Fleet Support, Integrated Missions Solutions, Nuclear & Environmental, and Oil & Gas groups. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs nearly 37,000 people operating both domestically and internationally.Newport News Shipbuilding, a Division of Huntington Ingalls Industries, is currently searching for IDS Data Scientist (3) to join our build authority team and embark on a courageous project to turn shipbuilding paperless; what we call Integrated Digital Shipbuilding or IDS. If you are someone who is looking for a challenging and yet rewarding career, come join our highly qualified, innovative and diverse team of professionals, and help us take on these and other exciting projects critical to the growth and success of the company. Designs, develops, and implements methods, processes and systems to consolidate and analyze diverse structured and unstructured data sets to solve real world customer use cases. Develops software programs, algorithms, dashboards, information tools, and queries to clean, model, integrate and evaluate datasets. Keeps abreast of new analytic methodologies and technologies. Collaborates with functional business units to drive business solutions and direction. Guide and mentor junior Data Scientists. Use Machine Learning algorithms and tools to develop and train models.Bachelor’s Degree in related field and 5 years of relevant professional/exempt experience. Master’s Degree in related field and 3 years of relevant professional/exempt experience. PhD in related field and 0 years of relevant professional/exempt experience. An additional 4 years of specific job experience with a HS diploma may be substituted for the Bachelor’s degree requirement for this job.            
