

 Position Description:Amsted Rail has immediate openings for the position of Data Scientist. The suitable candidate will function as the lead in projects related to data science and machine learning. The Data Scientist will work with domain experts and floor workers in the plants to understand products and processes, and will also work with engineers and technicians who are collecting and visualizing the data. The Data Scientist will be responsible for working with all relevant parties to ensure data integrity, and will process the data to obtain results that lead to improvements in products and processes. The role is not location dependent but will be office-based.    Major Responsibilities:The suitable candidate will be part of a cross-functional team of Data Scientists that will be responsible for:Working with domain and subject matter experts Communicating highly technical concepts to both technical and non-technical individualsProviding new insight into existing data using predictive analytics and machine learningRecommending new data streams and ensuring data integrityIdentifying new projects and opportunities, and the associated data requirements Delivering a range of reports suggesting improvements, data visualization and processing tools that can be used by floor workers, technicians, and engineersLeveraging the solutions implemented at various locations and sharing across other business units The position requires willingness to visit plants and foundries to observe the processes, and requires proper use of personal protective equipment (PPE).Professional Skills: Willingness and ability to lead and take data science projects end-to-end Must be able to work with all relevant technical and non-technical parties to ensure that quality results are obtained, and that proper action is taken throughout the organization to improve products and processesThe ability to identify questions independently and recognize new projects and new applications. This requires understanding of data requirements (sources, rates, storage, processing, etc.)Deep theoretical and practical understanding of predictive analytics, machine learning, and artificial intelligence algorithms, including, but not limited to: Bayesian classifiers and techniques, support vector machines, neural networks, decision trees, regression methods, unsupervised learning and clusteringSkilled in math: calculus, linear algebra, numerical methods, optimizationSkilled in statistics: statistical/ inference-based models, data visualizationsSkilled in programming: Python, R, MatlabDatabase management and query languages: Hadoop, SQL, etc.Basic knowledge of instrumentation, sensors, and data acquisition systemsAbility to understand a variety of applications and domains (embedded sensors, plant processes, etc.) Desired criteria & qualifications:Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work with others who do not possess a background in data scienceDesire to work in a dynamic environment and have a continuous improvement and development mindsetWillingness to travel as much as 20% of the time. The Data Scientist will have exposure to all business units, plants, processes, and products in order to work with local experts and technician engineersB.S. in Computer Science, Statistics, Math, Engineering, or related disciplines with experience in data science and machine learning. Graduate level degrees in these areas are desiredAll interested applicants please apply online at www.amstedrail.com.               
