

DescriptionxTime, a Cox Automotive brand, is currently looking for a Senior Data Scientist to join our team in Redwood City, CA.Your Role:We are looking for a Senior Data Scientist that will help an entrepreneurial business unit build smarter products for the automotive industry. You will be part of a product organization, and you will report to a Senior Director of Product Management for Reporting and Analytics.? As the Sr. Data Scientist, you will be an important part of a product strategy that?s focused on leveraing the possibilities of advanced analytics.?If you have a passion for being a subject matter expert in your field, working with business stakeholders to explore new opportunities, and building out models to address business opportunities, xTime would love to hear from you!Technology We Use:R, Python, SQL, Big Data, AWSYour Role:Build complex data models: Work with product managers to understand the needs for complex models?those that leverage statistics, time series, machine learning, textual analysis, prediction, prescription, etc. Define viable approaches. Explore, collect and curate large data sets. Implement, evaluate and tune models. Build ensembles. Iterate. Partner with data engineering teams to deploy, monitor and maintain your models in production. (Approximately 50% of time)Exploratory analysis: Collaborate with Product, Marketing and Sales. Refine business questions. Ramp up on the business domain. Find data sources. Query and collect data. Tidy, clean and transform data. Analyze data and identify trends. Visualize data. Draw conclusions, present insights and tell compelling stories. (Approximately 25% of time)Enable a data-driven product organization: Define product metrics and KPI. Design experiments. Test hypotheses. Make recommendations. Inform and influence product strategy. Be product"s go-to person for data questions. Coach product managers and business analysts on data-driven decisions. Also: learn to navigate our proprietary, third-party and intra-company data sources. Support data requests and data governance. Partner with other teams of data scientists. Partner with domain experts. Build your own expertise in the automotive business. (Approximately 25% of time)QualificationsRequired Experience (minimum):?5+ years doing exploratory analysis and building models in a data science or analytics positionAbility to work independentlyHands-on experience building complex models? those that leverage statistics, time series, machine learning, textual analysis, prediction, prescription, etc.--and supporting those models as leveraged by multi-million-dollar products.Hands-on experience with analytical programming (often, using R or Python), databases (often, using SQL) and unstructured data sourcesWhat We Look For (preferred):Bachelor"s degree in math, science, computer science, economics or statistics. Master"s degree preferred.?Experience using web services, such as AWS, and big data toolkits, preferredPassion for analysis and focus on business results. Entrepreneurial mindset.?Effective written, listening and oral communications.?Collaborative nature and the ability to balance vision and execution.COX-500At Xtime, you are a part of a? $100+ million brand focused on automotive services and fixed operations. Xtime is part of Cox Automotive, Inc., a multi-billion-dollar collection of 25+ brands that enable smart, connected and enjoyable car buying, selling and servicing experiences.About Cox Automotive?Cox Automotive is transforming the way the world buys, sells and owns cars with industry-leading digital marketing, retail, financial and wholesale solutions for consumers, dealers, manufacturers and the overall automotive ecosystem worldwide. The Cox Automotive family includes Autotrader?, Dealer.com?, Dealertrack?, Kelley Blue Book?, Manheim?, NextGear Capital?, vAuto?, VinSolutions?, Xtime?, incadea? and a host of other brands. With a complete and connected view of the automotive ecosystem, Cox Automotive is a global company connecting people, cars and capabilities with services that link the automotive value chain. Cox Automotive is a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises. For more information about Cox Automotive, visit www.coxautoinc.com. ?Cox is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer - All qualified applicants/employees will receive consideration for employment without regard to that individual?s age, race, color, religion or creed, national origin or ancestry, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, physical or mental disability, veteran status, genetic information, ethnicity, citizenship, or any other characteristic protected by law.Organization: Cox AutomotivePrimary Location: US-CA-Redwood City-1400 Bridge PkwyEmployee Status: RegularJob Level: Individual ContributorShift: Day JobTravel: Yes, 5 % of the TimeSchedule: Full-timeUnposting Date: OngoingCompany Description:Cox Automotive is transforming the way the world buys, sells and owns cars with industry-leading digital marketing, retail, financial and wholesale solutions for consumers, dealers, manufacturers and the overall automotive ecosystem worldwide. The Cox Automotive family includes Autotrader®, Dealer.com®, Dealertrack®, Kelley Blue Book®, Manheim®, NextGear Capital®, vAuto®, VinSolutions®, Xtime®, incadea® and a host of other brands.  With a complete and connected view of the automotive ecosystem, Cox Automotive is a global company connecting people, cars and capabilities with services that link the automotive value chain. Cox Automotive is a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises. For more information about Cox Automotive, visit www.coxautoinc.com.Cox Enterprises and its subsidiary companies are Equal Opportunity employers – M/F/Vets/Disabled.  Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status.
