

Data ScientistJob Label:MAG2A97D-Data ScientistTo apply for this position or refer someone you know, please click here!Perr&Knight has always done quantitative research, but with the availability of big data now we’re leveraging more sophisticated analytics for our clients.  That"s why we"re looking to hire an experienced Data Scientist in our Actuarial consulting area in Boca Raton, Florida. In a work environment that’s casual and independent, you"ll work directly with insurance clients to design analytic solutions for each project. Plus, as our analytics area is growing, you’ll be able to shape which software tools the department will use and, if necessary, to train others. To bolster your skills and make you an even more valuable resource, we’ll also encourage you to attend data science conferences and stay informed on the latest tools and technologies. This is a solid opportunity to join our actuarial team and use machine learning algorithms and statistics to help our clients successfully navigate the future. It will appeal to individuals mature enough to work independently on client projects and meet deadlines. As our Boca Raton, Florida-based Data Scientist, your first mission upon hire will be to gain a thorough understanding of our actuarial and analytics business processes and position yourself in our growing analytics area to use your expertise and, ultimately, to lead the direction of the unit. We"ll count on you to perform complex programming and analytics to determine pricing and market segmentation opportunities for our insurance industry clients. The Data Scientist will have direct contact with clients and may eventually assume supervisor responsibilities. We"re seeking problem solvers who want to analyze data and creatively come up with solutions for clients. Your work will vary with each client, keeping the job interesting and challenging. Someone who would shine in this role has strong statistical knowledge along with proven project management skills and has the ability to balance his or her statistical analysis with client deadlines. We’ll measure your performance not only on how well you follow best practices in analytics, but also on your ability to work with others, to have good project management skills and to create and maintain positive client interactions.To recap.  In this role you"ll identify, collect, verify and prepare  client data and external data for use in predictive analytic engagements; handle big data and construct datasets to facilitate analytics in the business of insurance; use variable selection and regularization techniques; develop optimal models/machine learning algorithms following industry best practices and latest industry developments; design and implement metrics to monitor model expectations against experience to determine areas of model weakness; recommend changes to client underwriting selection criteria, rating factors and other business operations based on the output from the predictive models; and prepare written reports of findings for discussion and/or presentation to clients. What You Bring to the Table:• Knowledge and understanding of statistical theory and machine learning techniques, including generalized linear models, decision trees, AI and clustering techniques.• 3+ years of relevant statistical modeling and data mining work experience.• Excellent programming skills including expertise in R and SQL. Ability to use advanced techniques to handle big data with structured and unstructured data.• Strong Project Management skills in order to meet deliverables• Ability to work both independently and collaboratively with professionals from other disciplines who may be geographically dispersed• Excellent oral and written communication skillsTop Candidates Have:• Predictive Analytic certification• Experience in consulting/insurance industry• Are located near or are willing to relocate to one of our offices in Santa Monica, CA; Jersey City, NJ; Fort Worth, TX; Cincinnati OH, or Boca Raton, FL office.About Perr&Knight:Founded in 1994, Perr&Knight provides insurance consulting and software solutions to the property & casualty and accident & health industries. Services include actuarial consulting, product development, insurance policy and forms consulting, regulatory compliance, state filings, licensing, technology consulting, statistical reporting, data services, and predictive analytics. Software includes StateFilings.com, a leading cloud-based state filings management solution. With offices in Santa Monica, Boca Raton, the New York Metro Area, Fort Worth, and Cincinnati, and more than 100 insurance professionals, Perr&Knight is among the largest independent actuarial and insurance consulting firms in the United States.To apply for this position or refer someone you know, please use our online interview system managed by HireMojo.Apply for this jobOnce you have completed the online interview, your information will be forwarded to the hiring authority for decisions on next steps.Related Keywords:statistical theory, machine learning, predictive analytics, statistical modeling, data mining, linear models, decision trees, AI, clustering techniques, technical project management            
