

Conagra Brands has the most energized, highest-impact culture in food. Our people persistently challenge and disrupt marketplace/business conventions and we are respected for our great brands, great food, great margins and consistent results. Conagra Brands, be part of building something BIG.  Position Responsibilities Develop and deploy data mining and advanced analytics to monitor, benchmark, and optimize business needs, identifying areas for improvement and deeper, root-cause analysisDevelop and deploy models, simulation models, and other advanced analytics solutions to enable data-driven decision making to meet goalsPartner with cross-functional business stakeholders on assumptions, opportunities, and solutionsCollaborate to drive standards, best practices, solution innovation, future solution needs, and to keep current with industry trends Minimum Qualifications Bachelor"s Degree in Data Science, Operations Research, Industrial Engineering, Applied Statistics, or other related quantitative discipline3+ years of experience developing and applying operational research models, data mining applications, and advanced analyticsExperience with data visualization and presentation tools (e.g. Tableu, Power BI, etc.)Experience with multiple BI and data access solutions (e.g. SAP BI, BOBJ, SQL, Storm, Spark, etc.) Experience with ETL and harmonization of large datasets from multiple platforms, including RDBMS, Cloud-based Data Lakes, Data Marts, and multiple flat-file formats on different operating systemsExperience with drawing conclusions and solving problems from a combination of large datasets in various areas.Proven problem solving in complex environments with innovative solutions and actionable resultsStrong written and verbal communication, including the ability to communicate complex technical concepts to non-technical business partnersAbility to handle multiple projects and priorities in a dynamic environment Strong coding skills in Python, R and knowledge of functional programming such as SAS preferredExperience with simulation models and tools is a plusHands on experience with large scale data processing software and tools (Hadoop, Spark, MapReduce etc.) preferred#LI-MA1SF:GDConagra Brands is an equal opportunity employer and considers qualified applicants for employment without regard to sex, race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, pregnancy, leave status, disability, veteran status, genetic information and/or any other characteristic or status protected by national, federal, state or local law.   Company Description:Conagra Brands (NYSE: CAG) is an approximately $8 billion company that combines a rich heritage of making great food with a sharpened focus and entrepreneurial spirit. We’re transforming the way we operate to fulfill what consumers and customers want, in a smart, simple way. We’re modernizing our iconic food brands, leveraging fresh opportunities and adapting to a changing landscape – all with a culture that’s ready to capture growth and drive shareholder value.
