

Data Scientist




Signature Consultants
•
St. Louis, MO


Posted 19 days ago




Full-Time


Degree - 4 Year Degree


$30.00 - $45.00 /Hour


Computer Software


Information Technology



Job Description

Data Scientist Summary:Signature Consultants has an opportunity for a Data Scientist. Our client has a small but rapidly growing analysis and engineering team that builds and leverages state-of-the-art analytics systems. The team work informs decisions and direction for the business, while also impacting the products. In this role the candidate will work cooperatively across research teams to ensure the best possible data and models are being used to help growers understand the impacts of decisions on their operations. Our client is seeking an agile researcher with broad experience in applied statistical or physical science research.Responsibilities:Exploratory data analysis, data cleaning & processing
Directed and/or independent research to test scientific hypotheses
Write beautiful, robust, well-documented research code
Engage with diverse research groups to understand their models and products and develop solutions to meet their data needs
Evaluate the limitations of existing data sources and provide recommendations to address unmet data needs
Undertake written & verbal communication with stakeholders in various parts of the organization
Qualifications:Bachelor's degree in data science, statistics, computer science or physical sciences, or comparable work experience in agriculture/biotechnology with research experience
Proficient with statistical software environments such as Python, Scala or R-Studio
Proficient use of SQL to extract and manipulate data from oracle, postgres, relational database
Experience designing and developing advisers, business rules and metrics using business intelligence (BI) using tools such as Spotfire, tableau, Business objects, Crystal Reports
Experience with oral presentation and technical writing
Preferred Qualifications:Excitement to learn new topics, develop new skills and use new tools
Knowledge of Bayesian statistical methods
Familiarity with NOSQL tools like Hadoop (hive, pig, presto) and Spark is a plus.
Interdisciplinary communication and collaboration skills
Experience with application of statistics to environmental or agricultural problems is a plus.
Experience with web services, api and database design
Expertise in data interoperability and analytics
Experience with Linux and AWS or other cloud based platforms is a plus, but not required
What Our Client Offers:The team is composed of top scientists and engineers. The environment is extremely engaging and fast-paced, with a diverse set of top agronomists, statisticians and engineers working together to provide the best possible products and experiences for our customers.
We a large assortment of snacks & drinks to get you through the day
Encouragement to get out of the office and into the field with agents and farmers to see first-hand how our products are being used
Unique opportunity to make a real world impact - we are solving problems that have a massive impact on farmers' lives and food security
Award winning offices with smart designs, large common areas and open floor plans that fuel collaboration
We strive for the highest quality in everything we do. From the precision of our agronomic models and the performance of our in-house databases, to the food we serve for lunch; we are constantly refining and improving.
We let you explore personally compelling topics by occasionally taking time to work on independent projects
We regularly host meet-up groups and tech-talks and encourage participation in relevant workshops and conferences
About Signature Consultants, LLCHeadquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Signature Consultants was established in 1997 with a singular focus: to provide clients and consultants with superior staffing solutions. For the seventh consecutive year, Signature was voted as one of the "Best Staffing Firms to Work For" and is now the 14th largest IT staffing firm in the United States (source: Staffing Industry Analysts). With 26 locations throughout North America, Signature annually deploys thousands of consultants to support, run, and manage their clients' technology needs. Signature offers IT staffing, consulting, managed solutions, and direct placement services. For more information on the company, please visit www.sigconsult.com. 


