

Job Description For Nike, Inc. merchants, everything begins and ends with the consumer. The Nike Merchandising team understands consumer needs and market capacity to create the right product mix for marketplaces around the world. From stores to online, this team helps bring the seasonal category visions to life. The Merchandising team has the unique ability to see beyond trends to identify what"s next to deliver the right product to the right places at the right time and price.Description Background:This role is in the Advanced Analytics team of the Nike Global Product and Merchandising Analytics. The Advanced Analytics team is chartered with leveraging state of art analytics to add significant and measurable value to the Nike product creation and merchandising processes. We do this through use of advanced mathematical optimization and statistical techniques to provide insights and decision support at various milestone moments in our product creation and merchandising processes.Position Summary:Person in this role leads the creation of analytical inputs in support of key decision points in the Nike category game plan process. These insights are consumed by end users through integration with existing applications; creation of new applications or through reports and dashboards. Problem domains in this space include line plan optimization, assortment optimization, pricing value management, product lifecycle management, consumer product data, etc. This role will partner with other data scientists within the team and across the Nike analytics ecosystems to continually drive scientific thinking and maturity within the company.Position Responsibilities: Develop algorithms and mathematical models that significantly improve our current ability to make decisions based on qualitative and quantitative data Partner with functional partners in merchandising and product creation teams to drive adoption of analytical insights into their decision-making process Identify and articulate the value that can be derived from analytical models Work as a team player to improve data science methods and be a positive influence on team advancement Measure and continue to improve the predictive accuracy of models Continuously improve departmental operations and add new analytical methodologies and techniques Educate the organization on new analytical techniques and their applicability within Nike Accessing and extracting data from Nike systems and support continued evolution of the Nike data capabilities Partner with our technology teams to ensure that once proven these algorithms are implemented in robust platforms to scale for deployment across the organization As required this person will perform tests and other tasks required to improve the functioning of our analytics platform.Qualifications MS 2 year experience or BS  4 year in a quantitative field - Statistics, Economics, Advanced Analytics, Operations Research, Applied Mathematics, Decision Sciences, Computer Science, Engineering, Science, or other relevant quantitative fields (PhD 2 year experience or MS 5 year experience for Sr. Data Scientist) Proven capability in deployment of solutions leveraging methodologies like time series methods, econometric methods, machine learning algorithms, etc. Very strong technical and analytical skillset in one or more data science languages like - R, Python, SPARK, MATLAB, etc. Predictive Analytics, Data Mining, Machine Learning, Text Analytics, Algorithm Designs, Bayesian Methods etc.Job ID 00372530 
